〈Eye and Starch〉

I've encountered three people in my life who are blind or have deteriorated eyesight due to diabetes.

The first one was a sophomore (or junior?) from the Special Education Department about 18 years ago. She appeared completely blind and had some mental issues. In a small group meeting of 4~5 people hosted by a teacher from university (I don't recall why I attended), this blind girl had some chatted with me. At that time, from which I've been diagnosed as T1D for about 2 years,  I planned to start a diabetic club (mainly for T1D) and sought diabatics to talk to. From our chatting, I learned that she regularly ate breakfast from Taiwanese Western burger shop, which in my mind was a terrible idea; I said to her, "You know it's the most horrified breakfast. Don't you think about changing it?" She showed sorrowful and helpless facial atmosphere, speechless with a shrug, had no definitive response to my question, then smiled me away in an empty distance.

The second one is my girlfriend's grandma, whom I've met with 15 years later. This old lady is an annoying woman, who always sits in front of a TV set screen watching television (or not watching at all) all day, while no one of her family members in my age gives her a shit (except my girlfriend; she sometimes indeed responds to her when not getting annoyed). This old and irritating woman has diabetic issues for decades with one eye marred by black spots from hyperglycemia. Her hobby is watching TV shopping channels and purchasing costly drugs and nutritional supplements claimed to cure diabetes by those TV-hosts, who sing and answer phone call from audience (who are just like my girlfriend's grandma). She insists that all the products she buys from TV are curative on diabetes, sugar-free, and starch-free, which I strongly doubt; nutrition labels indeed show starch and sugar. As I've said, no one my age talks  to ther except my girlfriend, who once yelled at her during a visit when I was there; I yelled too; it was not a pleasant visit in a nutshell. However, on our last visit a month ago, this annoying old lady seemed healthier, avoiding rice, noodles, and anything with starch or sugar (while keeping to buy nutritional supplements from TV); she claimed that her one blinded eye was healing.

The third is my auntie, my father's younger sister. This woman also has blood-sugar issue for a long time while insists that rice is essential for human, and also eats sweet food and cooks with soybean oil. I hadn't seen this lady for over a decade until last year at my father's house, where she looked miserable. She did terrible garbage hoarding in the house, stared at her phone all the time, and ate starch food without limitation. She told me that one of her eye was blind, from which I assumed prolonged hyperglycemia. I could tell that she had mental illness, thus it would be difficult to ask her out of my father's house back to her place, not to mention to help with her diabetes. I had lived with her for about two months, trying advising her on diet and my diabetes control method, until I got a mild acute bacterial kidney infection and be forced to move back to my girlfriend's one-room rental unit. This miserable story ended when my father returned and forced my aunt out with all her hoarding garbage back to her house. It is really a tragic story that starch and seed oil become the main nutrition for someone with blood sugar issues. I hope that her remaining eye would stay free from damage of hyperglycemia by her rice and bread consumption.

----------------------------------------------------------
https://www.blogger.com/profile/17529498359072421715
	https://louisophie-essays.blogspot.com/
https://x.com/louisophie_/
https://github.com/louisophie/withinretreat
#socialissue,#healthcare,#diabetes,#dietary,#essay,#life